DOC: batching in 1D/ND interpolation/smoothing routines (#22531)
scipy/scipy: doc/source/tutorial/interpolate/1D.rst

One way of thinking about it is to imagine a collection (a *batch*) of functions,
:math:`f(x), g(x), h(x), \dots`, sampled at the points :math:`x_j`, such that the ``y``
array represents a collection of :math:`f(x_j), g(x_j), h(x_j),\dots`, stacked along
the the first dimension.

To illustrate:

    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    >>> from scipy.interpolate import make_interp_spline
    >>> n = 11
    >>> x = 2 * np.pi * np.arange(n) / n
    >>> x.shape
    (11,)
    >>> y = np.stack((np.sin(x)**2, np.cos(x)), axis=1)
    >>> y.shape
    (11, 2)
    >>> spl = make_interp_spline(x, y)
    >>> xv = np.linspace(0, 2*np.pi, 51)
    >>> plt.plot(x, y, 'o')
    >>> plt.plot(xv, spl(xv), '-')
    >>> plt.show()

Several notes are in order. First and foremost, the behavior here looks similar to
NumPy's broadcasting, but differs in two respects:

1. The ``x`` array is expected to be 1D even if the ``y`` array is not: ``x.ndim == 1``
   while ``y.ndim >= 1``. There is no broadcasting of ``x`` vs ``y``.

2. The batching is along the *trailing* dimensions, in contrast to the NumPy functions

>    where the broadcasting works across the *leading* dimensions.

Author: Agreed, "batch along a dimension" is confusing; "trailing dimensions are used as batch dimensions" is strictly better, let's go with this wording.

Second, the interpolation axis can be controlled by an optional ``axis`` argument. The
example above uses the default value of ``axis=0``. For a non-default values, the

> following is true:

Author: I'm probably being dense. You surely do not mean: _For a non-default value, the following is true: by default, `y.shape[axis] == ...`_

> following is true:

Reviewer: Oops, this was meant for bullet 2 of the list above. I thought I fixed where the comment appeared, but I guess not.

> 2. By default, the batching is along the *trailing* dimensions

(Originally it was part of a bigger comment)

See :ref:`the extrapolation section <tutorial-extrapolation>` for more details
and discussion.

.. _tutorial-interpolate_batching:

Batches of `y`
==============

Univariate interpolators accept not only one-dimensional ``y`` arrays, but also
``y.ndim > 1``. The interpretation is that ``y`` is a *batch* of 1D data arrays: by
default, the zeroth dimension of `y`` is the interpolation axis, and the trailing 
dimensions are batch dimensions.

> One way of thinking about it is to imagine a collection (a *batch*) of functions,
> :math:`f(x), g(x), h(x), \dots`, sampled at the points :math:`x_j`, such that the ``y``
> array represents a collection of :math:`f(x_j), g(x_j), h(x_j),\dots`, stacked along
> ``axis=1``.

Reviewer: After seeing this rendered, I realized that while it can be infered, it may not be immediately apparent whether we are stacking the functions or the points. To be explicit, maybe:
```suggestion
Consider a collection (a *batch*) of functions :math:`f_j` sampled at the points
:math:`x_i`. We can instatiate a single interpolator for all of these functions by 
providing a two-dimensional array ``y`` such that ``y[i, j]`` records :math:`f_j(x_i)`.
```

If desired, could add something like:
> In other words, each row contains the values of all functions a single point, and each column contains the values of a single function at all points.
